An introduction to the book of Leviticus.
Leviticus was written by Moses in 1512 BCE in the wilderness of Sinai.
The name Leviticus, later given to the book, comes from a Greek word meaning pertaining to the Levites.
Yet the book was written not for the Levites alone, but for the entire nation of Israel.
Leviticus covers a period of about one month, describing the events immediately following the construction of the Tabernacle.
Leviticus focuses on Jehovah's holiness and the holiness of his people by their obedience to his statutes.
Chapters 1-7 set out the various laws about offerings to Jehovah.
Chapters 8-9 cover the installation of the priesthood.
The anointing of Aaron is high priest, and Aaron's first offerings to God.
In chapter 10, Jehovah puts to death two of Aaron's sons, the priests Nehdeb and Abihu, for offering unauthorized fire or incense.
Jehovah then issues the command that priests must not drink alcohol before entering the tent of meeting or tabernacle.
Chapters 11-15 set out laws about cleanness and uncleanness.
In regard to food, Jehovah tells the Israelites which creatures they may and may not eat.
Instructions regarding the day of atonement are given in chapter 16.
Chapter 17-20 contain laws on holy conduct.
For example, God's people must not eat blood or engage in any form of idolatry or spiritism as the nations around them were doing.
They should show consideration for the blind, the deaf, and the foreign resident, and they should treat the elderly with respect.
Did you know?
The arrangements mentioned in the book of Leviticus were a shadow of the good things to come, as explained in the book of Hebrews.
For example, the high priest typifies Jesus Christ.
The blood of the animal sacrifices foreshadows the blood of Jesus.
The most holy of the tabernacle represents heaven itself, where Jesus appeared before God on our behalf.
Chapters 21 and 22 set out rules for the priesthood.
For example, those serving as priests must be sound in body having no physical defects.
Chapters 23 and 24 have instructions about festivals and holy days.
Jehovah also provides directions regarding the lamps in the tabernacle and the ring-shaped loaves of showbred.
Chapter 24 also highlights the sacredness of God's name.
At Jehovah's command, a man who cursed that name is stoned to death.
Chapter 25 contains laws about the Sabbath year, the Jubilee year, the restoration of property, and the treatment of the poor.
Those who are sold into slavery must be treated kindly as hired workers.
Chapter 26 spells out the blessings of obedience to Jehovah and the punishments for disobedience.
Chapter 27 closes the book of Leviticus with laws about things vowed to Jehovah and things devoted to Him.
As you read the book of Leviticus, note how we should strive to be holy in imitation of Jehovah.
Why we should deeply respect His holy name?
And why we can have confidence that the entire earth will reflect God's holiness under the rule of His Son, the great high priest and king of God's kingdom?